In all cases, written answers (apart from code) should not be longer than about three paragraphs.  Graders may not read all of your
submission if it is longer than that.

Homework reflection 1

1. In Coding Quiz 1, you are asked to find the distance of the farthest match in a set.  Is this farthest match distance too far to be a meaningful match?  How can you decide this?
- The distance of the farthest match in the set was 0.210217, where the Z values were 0.988374 and 0.778157. By calculating summary statistics about the distances, we can determine how different the largest one is. The mean distance is 0.050, the median is 0.0133, the standard deviation is 0.0684. Therefore the max is over 2 standard deviations above the mean. Addiitonally, calculating the IQR we see it is 0.053. We could trim matches beyond a threshold outside IQR since they can be considered outliers. At a threshold of 2, we could remove any distances beyonhd 0.106. Based on these metrics, the distance of the farthest match in the set is too far to be a meaningful match.

2. In Coding Quiz 1, there are two approaches to matching: 
(A) Picking the best match X = 0 corresponding to each X = 1 using Z values.
(B) Using radius_neighbors to pick all matches X = 0 within a distance of 0.2 of each X = 1.

Invent your own type of matching similar to 1 and 2 (or look one up on the internet), which has a different way to pick the matches in X = 0.  Clearly explain the approach you invented or found.
- One methodology would be to manually create labels for a subset of the data of correct matches. Then, a model could be trained on those ground truth matches and inference can be performed on all new combinations. A model like logisitic regression could be used to output a score representing how strong a match is, and then we can sort/rank all possible matches for a given sample and pick the highest score.

Homework reflection 2

1. Invent an example situation that would use fixed effects.
- An organizations rolls out generative AI tooling to software developers to increase productivity. Each developer produces code at different rates due to natural ability, experience, and product domain. We can use fixed effects to determine the effect of the gen AI tooling on productivity by controlling for the differences in individual developers.

2. Write a Python program that performs a bootstrap simulation to find the variance in the mean of the Pareto distribution when different samples are taken.  Explain what you had to do for this.  As you make the full sample size bigger (for the same distribution), what happens to the variance of the mean of the samples?  Does it stay about the same, get smaller, or get bigger?
- First I setup the pareto distribution using the pareto method in numpy.random (Using the parameters provided in the example on numpy docs [a=2, size=1_000, mode=2]). Next I setup a bootstrap loop to sample with replacement from the pareto distribution and calculated the mean of the sample, saving it for later. Finally, I calculate the variance of the means. I performed this for a few sample sizes (1_000, 5_000, 10_000) to see the variance trend. I found that the variance decreases, trending towards 0.

Homework reflection 3

1. In the event study in Coding Quiz 3, how would we go about testing for a change in the second derivative as well?
- In the event study, we first test for a change in the value by looking at the change in the outcome variable from before/after the event. Next, we test the first derivative by determining the change in slope which is essentially the rate of change in the outcome. Finally, to test for a change in the second derivative we take things one step further by testing for change in the slope itself. This will tell us if the slope is increasing or decreasing over time in regards to the event time. To do this we need to add a squared term to the OLS model. Next, I would look at this change by examining the coefficient of the resulting model, and also check the p-value to ensure it is statistically significant.

2. Create your own scenario that illustrates differences-in-differences. Describe the story behind the data and show whether there is a nonzero treatment effect.
- Stakeholders at a fitness wearables company want to determine the effect after rolling out new AI powered features such as a personalized trainer and workout analysis. Since there could be many things changing at the same time such as overall popularity of fitness wearables, economic changes etc, they want to benchmark the against another competitor who has not rolled out equivalent features. To do so, data scientists performed a differences in differences comparison between their company's key outcomes such as profit and product sentiment against another competitor by analyzing public profit records and online sentiment. By categorizing the treatment group as their users, and the non-treatment group as the competitor, they can determine the before/after treatment statistics and calculate the differences in outcomes.

Homework reflection 4

1. The Coding Quiz gives two options for instrumental variables.  For the second item (dividing the range of W into multiple ranges), explain how you did it, show your code, and discuss any issues you encountered.

2. Plot the college outcome (Y) vs. the test score (X) in a small range of test scores around 80. On the plot, compare it with the Y probability predicted by logistic regression. The ground truth Y value is 0 or 1; don't just plot 0 or 1 - that will make it unreadable.  Find some way to make it look better than that.
